[OKR] SQL Handbook (#142)
infinum/rails-handbook: Databases/SQL/Tips & Tricks.md

## N-queries

You should avoid multiple DB queries from the application if you can fetch needed data in a single query. Always check what queries are executed in your (Rails) log.

Also, when you work on a complex SQL calculation, avoid pulling intermediate results to your application, which will be used for the next step in your query. It can be a very resource-intensive operation.

## UNION (ALL)

When you use `UNION` operator for combining result sets of two or more query statements, double-check if you would use `UNION` or `UNION ALL`.

The `UNION` operator is *less performant* because it **removes all duplicate rows** from the combined data set.
To retain the duplicate rows, you use the `UNION ALL` instead.

> ## VIEWs

Reviewer: I'd maybe mention few more things here:

- you can use a view as an ActiveRecord model (with example)
- scenic gem for managing views?
- are materialized views a way to go if you have a lot of inserts (you'd need to refresh it constantly)
- tips on when to use which view?

## N-queries

> You should avoid multiple DB queries from the application if you can fetch needed data in a single query. Always check what queries are executed in your (Rails) log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should avoid multiple DB queries from the application if you can fetch the needed data in a single query. Always check what queries are executed in your (Rails) log.
```

Also, when you work on a complex SQL calculation, avoid pulling intermediate results to your application, which will be used for the next step in your query. It can be a very resource-intensive operation.

## UNION (ALL)

When you use `UNION` operator for combining result sets of two or more query statements, double-check if you would use `UNION` or `UNION ALL`.

The `UNION` operator is *less performant* because it **removes all duplicate rows** from the combined data set.
To retain the duplicate rows, you use the `UNION ALL` instead.

## VIEWs

> Database `VIEW` is a pretty useful SQL mechanism. You can use it for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A database `VIEW` is a pretty useful SQL mechanism. You can use it for:
```

>   * hiding complexity of queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * hiding the complexity of queries
```

> 	* reducing complexity by naming a part of the complex query

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	* reducing the complexity by naming a part of the complex query
```

>   * exposing data subset to the outer world

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * exposing a data subset to the outer world
```

> Plain `VIEW` contains only a definition - that means the query would be executed each time you fetch data from the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A plain `VIEW` contains only a definition - that means the query will be executed each time you fetch data from the view.
```

> The results can be "cached" by using `MATERIALIZED VIEW`. Basically, `MATERIALIZED VIEW` acts as a read-only plain table. To update data in materialized views, use `REFRESH` statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results can be "cached" by using a `MATERIALIZED VIEW`. Basically, a `MATERIALIZED VIEW` acts as a read-only plain table. To update data in materialized views, use the `REFRESH` statement.
```

`REFRESH` completely replaces the content of a materialized view. That means the table is locked when the refresh process is running. To refresh a materialized view without locking, use `REFRESH MATERIALIZED VIEW CONCURRENTLY`.

> > You can add indexes to materialized views!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> You can add indexes to materialized views, but not plain database views.
```

## PostGIS

When you want to work with geographical data, most likely you'll end up using [PostGIS](https://postgis.net/). PostGIS is an extension for the PostgreSQL database.

In the official [documentation](https://postgis.net/docs/), you can find more information about data types, functions, and operators.

> Here's the list of some useful functions and geometry constructors, which can be your starting point when you'll start playing with PostGIS:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's the list of some useful functions and geometry constructors, which can be your starting point when you start playing with PostGIS:
```

  * `ST_Point`
  * `ST_ClosestPoint`
  * `ST_Contains`
  * `ST_Covers`
  * `ST_Collect`
  * `ST_Centroid`
  * `ST_DWithin`
  * `ST_ClusterDBSCAN`

> But, sometimes, PostGIS might be overkill for your use case - read more here [why you (probably) don't need PostGIS](https://blog.rebased.pl/2020/04/07/why-you-probably-dont-need-postgis.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PostGIS might be overkill in some scenarios - read more here [why you (probably) don't need PostGIS](https://blog.rebased.pl/2020/04/07/why-you-probably-dont-need-postgis.html).
```
